---
datePublished: 2020-08-20
dateModified: 2020-08-20
title:
  EIS and Spraoi Partner to Enhance the Dental and Ancillary Benefits Customer
  Experience
author: karan-mishra
isAnnouncement: y
description: >-
  Integration of Spraoi’s machine learning-enabled portal technology with EIS’
  core and digital platform follows EIS’ expanding open ecosystem partner model
---

Integration of Spraoi’s machine learning-enabled portal technology with EIS’
core and digital platform follows EIS’ expanding open ecosystem partner model

EIS, a core and digital platform provider for insurers, and Spraoi, a provider
of digital services and consulting, have integrated their solutions to provide
dental and group and voluntary benefits insurers a quicker path to digital
transformation of their product development and distribution while also
optimizing their customer experience.

As insurers step up the pace of digital transformation to meet market
expectations, they need to overcome the hurdles of having multiple products on
separate product platforms and a customer experience that is compromised as a
result.

The collaboration between EIS and Spraoi is designed to accelerate the
simplification of systems and the customer experience and quickly enable new
product offerings, distribution, and AI-assisted customer journeys. EIS and
Spraoi work as open ecosystem partners. EIS provides a comprehensive,
industry-leading set of open APIs that expose the quoting, rating, policy
administration, billing, claims, and customer management capabilities within the
EIS Suite™ of core applications. Spraoi connects to those APIs to build out
customer and agent portals within its Kwikcover solution and delivers machine
learning models to improve operating outcomes from quote to claim.

The integration has already been deployed by
[Renaissance](https://renaissancefamily.com/), a nationwide provider of dental,
vision, life, disability and accident products to support a diverse product
portfolio and deliver a next-gen distribution and customer experience.

“Through our ongoing partnership with Spraoi, we are taking another step toward
helping insurers become the agile and customer-centered organizations that the
future of insurance demands of them,” said Tony Grosso, head of marketing at
EIS. “EIS is executing an open ecosystem strategy that leverages the native
openness of our platform to connect quickly with complementary solutions and
compound the business value of carriers’ digital transformations. Insurers can
benefit immensely from technology partners that are aligned technically and
culturally when building platforms that are responsive to the market.”

In addition to its portal technology, Spraoi’s machine learning models can also
positively influence many core processes enabled through the EIS® platform. For
example, to improve propensity to buy, as consumers engage with the platform,
the solution can deliver recommendations on what products are most relevant to
them through EIS Suite to the end consumer, based on their persona. In the
claims process, Spraoi delivers machine learning models through to the adjusters
and various stakeholders for segmentation, assignment, auto adjudication, and
fraud detection. The integration of EIS and Spraoi solution is available to the
property/casualty and group/voluntary benefits spaces.

“Spraoi is excited by our progressive partnership with EIS because we share a
vision of how new generation technologies should be delivered to carriers,” says
Karan Mishra, co-founder, Spraoi. “We have a natural fit. Spraoi solutions take
maximum advantage of EIS’ fully digital core to provide an enhanced and adaptive
user experience. This means insurers get maximum value from their digital
transformation investment.”

## About EIS

EIS is an insurance software company that enables leading insurers to innovate
and operate like a tech company: fast, simple, agile. Founded in 2008, EIS
provides a platform for high-velocity insurance. This open, flexible platform of
core systems and digital solutions liberates insurers to accelerate and scale
innovation, launch products faster, deliver new revenue channels, and create
insurance experiences the world will love. And with thousands of open APIs, the
platform gives insurers the freedom to connect to a vast ecosystem of insurtech
and emerging technologies. Headquartered in San Francisco, EIS powers premium
growth for insurers in all lines of business worldwide. For more information,
visit [EISGroup.com](https://www.eisgroup.com/) or follow @EISGroupLtd on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/eisgroupltd?lang=en) and
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/eisgroupltd/).

## About Spraoi

Spraoi is an insurance technology solutions provider combining Big 4 Insurance
consulting experience with Silicon Valley technology acumen and offshore scale.
We focus on assisting carrier clients with the two most pressing needs
confronting them today: how to leverage their data to optimize outcomes using
our patent pending platform and how to better engage customers throughout the
lifecycle using our customer engagement infrastructure. Beyond our solutions, we
have created an innovation framework that provides accountability from concept
through execution, eliminating technology as the impediment to progress.
