---
datePublished: 2020-07-10
dateModified: 2020-07-10
title: PM on the Run
author: neli-popova
description: >-
  Through childhood and adolescence, we are constantly asked what we want to be
  when we grow up, and the kinds of things we will study to pursue that goal.
---

Through childhood and adolescence, we are constantly asked what we want to be
when we grow up, and the kinds of things we will study to pursue that goal. Some
people know from a young age the path they will pursue, but for me it took
multiple courses, projects, experiments to realize my true passion is project
management. When I started my first year of college at DeVry University, I knew
that I was interested in business, but my family and professors always directed
me to focus on one specific major. I pursued classes in finance, accounting, and
even global chain management, but no single discipline caught my attention
enough for me to want to pursue it in my future. Then a classmate recommended I
consider project management as my business concentration. Right away, it was
clear to me that I had found my passion. It took me about three years to decide
on a major, but I finally did it (and with a master’s degree to top it off)!

To some people, project management may be seen as the creation of a compound
plan to hang on the wall with a bunch of check marks. A to-do list, nothing
more. But effective project management is about taking a project of value and
applying features and knowledge about finances, risks, resources, milestones,
preparation and implementation to enhance and improve it. My experience in
project management has not only allowed me to succeed in my career, but in my
everyday life as well, as I am trained to take a holistic view of every
situation or project with regard to the risks and consequences involved.

Project management can be viewed as common sense, but anyone who has ever worked
on a project in a technical setting knows that this “common sense” is not always
easily accomplished. By taking each task and evaluating it against the goal of
the project and assessing potential risks that could be associated with that one
task and its entirety, one is able to see the bigger picture. Currently, the
project I am working on has many moving parts and if one risk arises or a single
item is not completed on time, that has a major significance on the outcome of
the project and whether certain aspects will be delayed. Project management is
more than just picking a project and ensuring it is complete, rather it is about
analyzing it from start to finish and ensuring all items, tasks, risks and
resolutions are evaluated.

Spraoi has not only enabled me to bring in my project management experience and
knowledge, but has challenged me to apply this skill to both a technical as well
as a business aspect to an industry I never thought I would have the opportunity
of being a part of. As a Product Catalyst at Spraoi, I have been able to analyze
projects by incorporating all the skills mentioned above, such as analyzing
risks, resources, milestones and of course, preparation and implementation.

The opportunity to work on a project where I can utilize all of my skills as
well as expand and learn something new everyday is an amazing opportunity in
which I will be forever thankful. From requirements management to establishing
strong working relationships with internal and external stakeholders to advocate
the deployment service value proposition within a project, I have been
challenged tremendously in my career. I plan to continue applying my project
management skills as well as learning new ways to apply those skills to my
position as a Product Catalyst at Spraoi.
